Refactor (#6)
libdemdigital/security-advice: index.md

---
title: Security advice for Lib Dem Activists

> ---

Author: Yup :)

Remember that as a **political activist of any kind**, you are at high risk. The guidelines below are intended to protect you against the kind of threats we have seen historically. They are ranked in rough descending order of priority.

The good news is, if you follow these guidelines, you will have a high level of protection against experiencing what Dr. Liz, our candidate in Uxbridge and South Ruislip, [experienced](https://twitter.com/EvendenKenyon/status/1156223496017440768).

The easiest way to get this protection is to form good security habits before you need them.

# How to use this guide
This guide is a prescriptive list of things we recommend. It doesn't leave space for edge cases or "customisation" so take it at face value. We have put our reasoning in a second document, [here](why.html), which will allow you to customise it for your needs if you feel confident.

This advice should be easy to use for most people.

# Hardware
## Phone
Your phone will probably be the most secure device available - it's also always with you, meaning it's less likely to be compromised (or stolen) while you're away from it.

If in doubt, do it on your phone.

### Choosing a new phone

> - If you can afford it, get an iPhone, they're nominally more secure and much easier to keep updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you can afford it, get an [iPhone](#iPhone), they're generally more secure and much easier to keep updated.
```

Reviewer: (change `nominally` to `generally` and link to the sub-section)

Author: This is fair. I wanted to identify that the delta isn't really all that great (for the kind of threats we're defending against) but "nominally" is possibly a bit weak.

The link to the iPhone sub-section doesn't really make sense now there isn't a single iPhone sub-section

- If you cannot afford an iPhone or strongly prefer Android phones, buy a phone from the [Android One](https://www.android.com/intl/en_uk/one/) or [Android Go](https://www.android.com/versions/go-edition/) range since they get regular updates directly from Google.

### Updates
You _must_ make sure it's still getting updates from your manufacturer - any criminal worth their salt will be using exploits that target old bugs that have since been fixed.

#### iPhone

> - If you have an iPhone 6S or 6S Plus, or newer, you are [currently still getting updates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPhone#History_and_availability).

Reviewer: Can we mention SE here too? Because it hasn't got a number, I wouldn't guarantee users know straight off the bat that it is still in support too.

Author: Sure :)

> - The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus are out of support, so are any devices released before them. **Stop using these phones, upgrade**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus (and older models) are out of support. **Stop using these phones, upgrade**.
```

> - Ensure you have the latest update. Do this by going to `Settings > General > Software Update`, tap `Download and Install`, then `Install`. Or [follow this guide](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/HT204204).

Reviewer: Is it worth mentioning that as of Oct 2019 the newest version of iOS is 13.1?

Author: I tried to keep the advice "timeless" 😂 - we can do this, we just need to remember to update it.

Reviewer: Timeless works too, the computer section below mentions 10.14 Mojave though

Author: Good point.

Author: Removed the reference to 10.14

#### Android
- It's much more complicated to find out if an Android phone is getting regular updates, and can be affected by both your phone manufacturer and network. Contact your manufacturer.
- Ensure you have the latest update. Do this by going to `Settings > System > Advanced > System Update`, tap `Check for Update`. These instructions may vary from phone to phone.

### Backups

> Without backups, if you lose or break your phone (or it breakt itself) you lose everything on your phone.

Reviewer: ?
```suggestion
Without backups, if you lose or break your phone (or it breaks itself) you lose everything on your phone.
```

#### iPhone

> - Backups are done through iCloud and will probably mean you have to [buy a plan](https://www.apple.com/uk/icloud/). Do it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Backups are done through iCloud and will probably mean you have to [buy a plan](https://www.apple.com/uk/icloud/). 50GB (more than enough storage) is £0.79/month. Do it.
```

- Go to `Settings > <your name> > iCloud > Backup` and turn on `iCloud Backup`.
- Make sure you connect your phone to your home Wi-Fi and leave it on charge overnight.
- Periodically check back to see that backups are completing.

#### Android

> - Backups are done through Google One and you _will_ have to [buy a plan](https://one.google.com/about). Do it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Backups are done through Google One and you _will_ have to [buy a plan](https://one.google.com/about). 100GB (more than enough storage) is £1.59/month. Do it.
```

- Install the [Google One](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.apps.subscriptions.red) app.
- Open the Google One app, go to `Settings > Manage backup settings` and tick everything except `Back up using mobile data`.
- Make sure you connect your phone to your home Wi-Fi and leave it on charge overnight.
- Periodically check the `Home` tab of the Google One app to see that backups are completing.

### Misc

> - Go through your phone and delete anything you're not currently using. Every app is a vector for attack; less apps are more safe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Go through your phone and delete any apps you're not currently using. Every app is a vector for attack; less apps are more safe. If you think you *might* need it in future, you can always reinstall when the need arises.
```

- Consider resetting your phone back to factory settings:
  - This is a very effective way of clearing up your device (because it deletes everything)
  - It is also a good opportunity to test your backups (better now than in the heat of a campaign)
- Limit apps' permissions to the minimum possible. If in doubt, remove the permission from the app and see what breaks - you can always give it back!
  - On iPhone go to `Settings > Privacy` and go through each category in turn.
  - On Android go to `Settings > Privacy > Permission manager` and go through each category in turn.

> - **Do not sideload apps**. This is where applications are installed by downloading a file ending `.apk` instead of installing it from the app store/play store. It is disabled by default on both Android and iPhones.

Reviewer: I want to be a bit stronger on this one, and maybe mention rooting/jailbreaking too:
```suggestion
- **Never sideload apps**. This is where applications are installed by downloading a file ending `.apk` instead of installing it from the app store/play store. It is disabled by default on both Android and iPhones.
- **Do not root or jailbeak your device**. This disables many of the security protections on your device.
```

### Unlocking your phone
- Ensure you use a strong, long passphrase or pin on your phone (even with fingerprint or Face ID).
  - **Don't share this with anyone**, and if you do then reset it afterwards.

> - Face ID and fingerprint unlocking _is_ safe, but remember the risks:

Reviewer: This is a great section, glad you've added it in

  - Face ID can be unlocked by another person pointing your phone at you before running off.
  - Fingerprint unlock can be used by someone touching your phone to your finger while you're asleep (e.g. on a flight).
  - You can temporarily disable this on most phones, forcing a PIN unlock:

>     - On iPhone hold down the side button and either volume button for two seconds.

Reviewer: This is for iPhones 8 and higher only.

For iPhone SE/6/6S/etc. you need to press the power button 5 times (https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208076) then cancel the screen that pops up.

The user must also cancel out the screen or it may automatically call the Emergency Services.

Author: Ugh. Okay, that's annoying. I'll see about adding it.

Author: I'm not going to recommend something to people that will auto-dial the emergency services if they do it wrong. I clarified that it was for iPhone 8 and up only.

Reviewer: Sorry that was bad clarification on my part.
From https://support.apple.com/en-gb/HT208076;

Older/newer iPhones have different mechanisms for enabling "SOS Mode". By enablig SOS mode, TouchID/FaceID is disabled until the pin has been entered successfully.

If you fiddle with the settings, you can also make it go on to automatically dial the emergency services (but this is _not_ the default).

In addition, on iPhone 8+, if you persist in holding the two buttons down, a countdown will appear on screen from 3, after which it will dial the emergency services.

Author: Updated

    - On Android this needs Enabling first. Go to `Settings > Display > Advanced > Lock screen display` and enable `Show lockdown option`. Then after you lock your phone, press and hold the power button until the menu comes up and tap `lockdown`.

## Computer
Computers are often much less secure, especially Windows computers. Generally, avoid using a computer for confidential information where possible.

> ### Choosing a new computer

Reviewer: Much better than before

- If you don't need to use a specific Windows application (e.g. Pageplus) then **buy a Chromebook**. These are _very_ secure, but check the limitations.
  - [Check to see](https://support.google.com/chrome/a/answer/6220366?hl=en) when auto-updates end on the chromebook you plan on buying (5 years after the computer first went on sale). Once they end you will need a new one.
- If you must use applications like PagePlus then you'll need a Windows computer.

> - Macs are less secure than Chromebooks and work with less software than Windows.

Reviewer: Is this intended to discourage use of Macs?

Author: No, just seems pointless to recommend them for purchasing. If people really like them then 🤷‍♂ they can still use them.

Reviewer: Yep makes sense! I would maybe clarify that we are referring to campaign software rather than the general case.

Author: Updated

### Updates
Updates are _essential_ to ensuring your computer stays at least somewhat secure - any criminal worth their salt will be using exploits that target old bugs that have since been fixed.

#### Chromebook
- Chromebooks get five years of updates from the day the computer went on sale.
- You will get update notifications and it will auto-update.
- Updates are usually completed in minutes.
- When support runs out you will get a notification to tell you - _stop using it and buy a new one_.

#### Windows
- All computers _must_ be running Windows 10 and Windows update _must_ be enabled.
  - Check your Windows version [using this guide](https://support.microsoft.com/en-gb/help/13443/windows-which-version-am-i-running).
  - Check Windows updates using [this guide](https://support.microsoft.com/en-gb/help/4027667/windows-10-update).
- Don't ignore update notifications, save your work and follow the instructions.
  - Yes, they can take a long time. It doesn't matter. Update to stay safe.

#### Mac

> - All Macs _must_ be running macOS 10.14 (Mojave) and updates _must_ be enabled.

Reviewer: 10.15 (Catalina) is shipping very soon; we should come back to update this

### Encryption
It's imperative that your computers are encrypted - if you don't do this, someone can simply bypass login and pick files straight off your computer:
- Chromebooks are encrypted by default
- On Windows, follow [this guide](https://support.microsoft.com/en-gb/help/4028713/windows-10-turn-on-device-encryption). You might have to upgrade to the Pro version of Windows 10. If so, do it.
- On a Mac, enable FileVault using [this guide](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/HT204837)

### Antivirus
- On Chromebooks antivirus is built-in
- On a Mac antivirus is built-in
- On Windows 10 antivirus is now built-in, make sure it's enabled using [this guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/intune-user-help/turn-on-defender-windows)
- Delete any other antivirus products

### Browser
- Use [Google Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/) as your default browser on your laptop (On Chromebook this is already the default)
- Install and use the [uBlock Origin](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/ublock-origin/cjpalhdlnbpafiamejdnhcphjbkeiagm) browser extension

>   - This blocks adverts and other scripts on websites that can do bad things

Reviewer: Did you mean to remove HTTPS everywhere? I expect users will still use public Wi-Fi at some point despite our reccomendations, and it will help eleveate their safety

Author: Yes, I never really saw the point of using HTTPS Everywhere? Chrome effectively flags up (and in many cases refuses to load) insecure content.

We can add it. Just seems superfluous.

Reviewer: It upgrades the connections without user input (not every site has automatic redirects from 80 -> 443); I can't find the reference but according to their telemetry it is still doing a huge amount of work

Author: Added back.

Reviewer: For completeness, here's the quote I was referring to:
https://twitter.com/EFF/status/1130935129763766272
linking to
https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2018/12/how-https-everywhere-keeps-protecting-users-increasingly-encrypted-web

Relevant quote:
>It more than doubles the coverage of the HSTS preload list

- Avoid using other extensions, as they have access to your browsing activity
- Use incognito mode whenever you want your browsing history to not be logged

>   - Remember, incognito mode will not stop your ISP or anyone else logging your browsing history

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Remember, incognito mode will **not** stop your ISP or anyone else logging your browsing history. It just stops it being saved locally on your computer.
```

### Misc
- Chromebooks being cluttered can't really harm you. If you run out of space, delete stuff
- On Windows and Mac, be sure to delete apps you don't use and/or are of dubious origin
- If you have a Windows PC, I recommend rebuilding it regularly:
  - This is a very effective way of clearing up your device (because it deletes everything)
  - It is also a good opportunity to test your backups (better now than in the heat of a campaign)
  - Find a friendly local computer helper to help you with this
- If you have a problem with a Mac, go to the local Apple store - it's free IT support
- _Never_ use USB drives (flash drives) - use Google Drive instead.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **ALWAYS** lock your computer when you step away from it, even if its only for a few seconds.
    - On Chromebook: `[Search Key]` + `L`.
    - On Windows: press `[Windows Key]` + `L`
    - On Mac: 
        - Set your Mac to [require a password _immediately_ after being locked or put to sleep](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/mac-help/mchlp2270/mac)
        - Lock it using a shortcut, described [here](https://www.macworld.co.uk/how-to/mac/lock-mac-3639053/)
```

The Mac bit is really weakly written, help would be appreciated.

# Communications
We need to talk, to collaborate and organise - and this will be taken advantage of by malicious actors (opponents, journalists, mischief-makers).

## Face to face
Face to face communication can seem secure since there's nothing recording you. There might be.
- Lower your voice. If you're in a bar or public area, assume someone's eavesdropping
- Some people record their conversations with their phone, without admitting to it, so assume they are
- For confidential conversations retire to a private space and ask people to ensure they're not recording

> (You may think this is weird but I've recently noticed one of our local party executive members has been recording all our meetings with his phone, so that he can take notes later. He doesn't tell anyone he's doing that, nor do we know how carefully he handles/disposes of those recordings)

Reviewer: 👍

- Always have conversations on WhatsApp - never use SMS/Email/etc for internal communications
- Make sure messages only go to people that need to see them.
  - Don't send out confidential information to groups of volunteers when only a few specific people need that information.
  - Leaks from members (in the pub, boasting to journalists, etc) are common.
- **Don't write anything down you can't risk leaking**
  - Leaks happen. Screenshots, stolen phones, aggrieved colleagues
  - Phone them instead
- On computers, use the [WhatsApp Web](https://web.whatsapp.com/) interface
  - _Always_ log out afterwards, or someone else can use your computer to see your messages

## Email
Email is _very insecure_. Unfortunately it's also very important. Never use it for anything that needs to be kept secret unless you have to.
- Use Gmail for your personal email
  - Install the Gmail app on your phone
  - Install Google Chrome on your computer
  - _Never_ access Gmail using anything else
- _Never_ use email for confidential information (use WhatsApp instead)
- _Never_ share documents/files through email (use Google Drive instead)
- _Never_ give any apps permissions to read or write your email inbox

> 

Reviewer: We **need** to get users to enable MFA on their emails. Perhaps we can do this by moving MFA higher up (above Email) so we can reference it.

Author: I arranged it this way around so I had the advice to use Gmail before the advice to secure Gmail with MFA. That way, if people are following it step-by-step they won't start securing everything with MFA until they know what they should be using.

Reviewer: Sorry! This is my bad for misreading! I extrapolated from Facebook & Twitter's sections mentioning MFA but email's not.

- Use the sharing feature to create a "shared" folder and share with anyone you like
  - _Ensure Classified and Unclassified data are kept in separate folders!_
- Additionally, feel free to share this data via email or Facebook or anything else

# Security
## Passwords
Weak passwords are a common way of breaking in to computers. Most passwords under 8 characters can be broken in minutes, some in seconds.

- Install [LastPass](https://www.lastpass.com/) on your phone and in Chrome
- Add all your usernames and passwords to LastPass
- Use the password generator to create random, unique replacement passwords for all sites
- Use the [LastPass Security Challenge](https://helpdesk.lastpass.com/lastpass-security-challenge/) to check your passwords are secure.
- Use a [passphrase](https://xkcd.com/936/) for your master password:
  - Choose four or more random words (e.g. battery, horse, staple, correct)
    - Ensure they're actually random, they can't be a cogent sentence
    - Try flipping through a book and picking words at random
    - Avoid common words like conjunctives (and, or, etc)
  - Piece them together in to a single phrase with capital letters (`BatteryHorseStapleCorrect`)

>   - Swap one or two letters out for numbers and/or symbols (`B4tteryH0rseSt4pleC0rrect!`)

Reviewer: I'm unconvinced this adds security, but does make it harder for users to remember. Perhaps instead suggest they use a separating character between words (`.`/`-`/`!`/etc.)
Any common substitutions (`o` -> `0`) are so common/obvious they don't count as a change.

Author: Hmm. My understanding is that it does add to the security of the password because it protects it from brute-force dictionary attacks on weak hashes (the user, of course, almost never has any control over how securely their password is stored).

Reviewer: I'm not an expert on this, but I double checked both [1Password](https://support.1password.com/strong-master-password/) and [LastPass](https://blog.lastpass.com/2015/07/how-to-make-a-strong-master-password.html/)'s reccomendations, and they point towards (potentially capitalised) words separated by punctuation.

Author: Updated

  - Keep logging in and out of LastPass until you remember the password automatically
- **Don’t reuse the same passwords** (or similar passwords) across sites

>     - Most successful hijacks are done by trying people's passwords from another, poorly secured website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Most successful hijacks are done by trying taking people's passwords from one hacked website, and trying them on every single other website they can find.```

## PINs
PINs are very insecure since there are much less combinations of numbers to try than there are letters.
- If you can, use a longer PIN. 6 numbers is better than 4
- Don't use dates, they are the first thing people will try

> - Use a PIN phrase:

Reviewer: 👏 love this one.

Do we know what the max PIN length on iOS/Android is?

Reviewer: Looks like iOS defaults to 6 but if you fiddle with the settings you can make it arbitrary length.

Author: On Android it's as long as you like :)

  - Choose a word that's longer than your PIN
  - Type that word out using the letters on a number pad
  - This is easier to remember and much more secure

## Multi-Factor Authentication
Using a username, password, and something else is much more secure than just a username and password.
- Install `Authy` on your phone and go through the setup process
- Set up all your online accounts with 2FA using [this guide](https://authy.com/guides/)

> - When you log in with your username and password, you will additionally have to enter a number from the `Authy` app on your phone in future.

Reviewer: Proposition: Can we present a `Level 1` and `Level 2` version of this? App-based MFA protects against credential stuffing but generally falls over against well-crafted spear phishing.

I think that by offering `Level 1` and `Level 2`, people will be able to self-select into the appropriate place. People generally don't lose their keys, so as long as we advise them to keep the security key with their actual keys, losses should be minimal.

If we direct them to set up app-based MFA as secondary then worst case scenario they never use the security key and they are at `Level 1`; best case they use the Security Key always, and if they lose it they can fall back to `Level 1`

Reviewer: Do we want users to back up their Authy codes? If so, we should be explicit about doing so, and keeping the password in LastPass.

Author: Authy will do it automatically, added a point to 

Having set up my wife with security keys I'm reasonably uncomfortable advising people to do this on their own. Anyone on a "Level 2" should be getting more direct advice instead of taking a hand-out from the PCA :joy:

It's certainly true that target seat candidates (and current MPs defending their seats) would do well to secure themselves more. Those are the kinds of people we can start demanding buy specialist hardware (iPhone, Chromebook, Yubikey, use Google's Advanced Protection regardless of the inconveniences).

Reviewer: I'm convinced, thank you for explaining your reasoning!

## Logging out
- _Always_ log out of a website when you've finished using it on your computer
- _Never_ leave Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter or anything else logged in

>   - Even if it's your own computer

Reviewer: I have doubts this advice will be followed by most people; it adds far too much hassle. 

Despite it being a great 'best practice', if we are aiming for pragmatism maybe this one should be dropped

Author: This is really common advice I give to people who are less savvy with computers, and I'm consistently surprised at how diligent they are at following it :) my nan still logs out of Facebook after she's done with it.

Remember, we're trying to push people towards having their "regular" presence on their phones, rather than their computers.

Reviewer: In that case I'm convinced

## Wi-Fi
If you do not own the Wi-Fi (e.g. you are in a cafe or hotel), then you shouldn't trust it.
- Only use trusted Wi-Fi networks (your home, your office, etc)
  - Other Wi-Fi networks may track and steal your data
  - Other people on the same Wi-Fi network could track and steal your data
- Otherwise, use your phone
  - Browse directly from the mobile phone, or
  - Create a Wi-Fi hotspot which you can connect your other device to
    - On iPhone, [follow this guide](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/HT204023)
    - On Android, follow [this guide](https://support.google.com/android/answer/9059108)
    - *Use a long password for any Wi-Fi hotspots you create*

# Online Presence
It's important to be active online, but it's also dangerous. If someone compromises your account and writes something nasty pretending to be you, you'll have to spend precious campaign time trying to explain that it wasn't you. Don't fall victim.

## Facebook

> - Turn on Multi-Factor Authentication in Facebook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Turn on Multi-Factor Authentication in Facebook](https://authy.com/guides/facebook/)
```

- Ensure you have a strong, unique password stored in LastPass
- Only use Facebook for unclassified data
  - Facebook is designed for sharing, not privacy
  - There is no way to validate members on Facebook
  - You must assume there are non-members, ex-members and rival party members pretending to be members in any private group
- Treat every part of Facebook like a public forum
- Take time to go through your [Activity Log](https://www.facebook.com/help/289066827791446)
  - Not only old posts and pictures, but also liked pages etc
  - Everyone has something embarrassing on their Facebook account
  - Limiting your posts to friends isn't enough, make sure they're deleted!

## Twitter

> - Turn on Multi-Factor Authentication in Twitter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Turn on Multi-Factor Authentication in Twitter](https://authy.com/guides/twitter/)
```

- Ensure you have a strong, unique password stored in LastPass
- Assume that anything you say in Twitter direct messages will one day be public.
- Take time to go through your past tweets and replies for embarrassing or compromising messages

> - Consider just deleting all messages older than a certain point with [TweetDelete](https://tweetdelete.net/)

Reviewer: If we point users towards this, we should also signpost them on how to remove `TweetDelete`s after it's done.

Author: We could do that. We could also remove the suggestion entirely. Honestly I'm not 100% on this bit of the guide.

Reviewer: I think its useful general advice, but not security related. I'd be happy to get rid of it from here

Author: Removed.

  - Piece them together in to a single phrase with capital letters (`BatteryHorseStapleCorrect`)
  - Swap one or two letters out for numbers and/or symbols (`B4tteryH0rseSt4pleC0rrect!`)
  - Keep logging in and out of LastPass until you remember the password automatically
- **Don’t reuse the same passwords** (or similar passwords) across sites
    - Most successful hijacks are done by trying taking people's passwords from one hacked website, and trying them on every single other website they can find.```

## PINs
PINs are very insecure since there are much less combinations of numbers to try than there are letters.
- If you can, use a longer PIN. 6 numbers is better than 4
- Don't use dates, they are the first thing people will try
- Use a PIN phrase:
  - Choose a word that's longer than your PIN
  - Type that word out using the letters on a number pad
  - This is easier to remember and much more secure

## Multi-Factor Authentication
Using a username, password, and something else is much more secure than just a username and password.
- Install `Authy` on your phone and go through the setup process
  - Remember to store your Authy Username/Password in LastPass

> - Set up all your online accounts with 2FA using [this guide](https://authy.com/guides/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set up all your online accounts with 2FA using [this guide](https://authy.com/guides/)
    - If you find yourself short of time, set it up first for your email, Facebook, & Twitter accounts **at a bare minimum**.
```
